# MicroRNA Expression Level Changes as Potential Biomarkers for Clinical Outcomes in Canine Osteosarcoma
This study explores the role of miRNAs in predicting clinical outcomes for OS patients. By comprehensively integrating regularized Cox regression for survival analysis, we aim to identify key miRNAs while considering the combined effects of different miRNAs. Furthermore, we employed an unpenalized Cox regression model to assess miRNA significance.
We hypothesize that changes in specific miRNA levels between pre- and post-amputation plasma samples within each patient are predictive of clinical outcomes in dogs with osteosarcoma after standard-of-care treatment (amputation followed by chemotherapy). These miRNAs may serve as prognostic markers, and we predict that their functional roles in relevant biological pathways contribute to the clinical outcome in patients. Moreover, we anticipate that the messenger RNA targets of miRNAs that are significantly altered following amputation and are correlated with clinical outcomes will participate in common biological pathways. Consequently, the objective of this project is two-fold: (i) to identify key miRNAs by utilizing RT-qPCR data from pre-amputation and post-amputation plasma samples while considering the combined effects of the different miRNAs, and (ii) to identify potential biological pathways in which these key miRNAs participate. By achieving these objectives, we aim to provide valuable insights into the role of miRNAs in osteosarcoma outcomes and contribute to the broader understanding of miRNA-mediated mechanisms in cancer.
